You can usually write off more than you think you can
by hiring an affordable accountant,
unless you become very, very well versed
in tax strategies.
I all want you to ask for a receipt though, okay?
Quite often we pay for items with our phone
using Square or PayPal or other payment forms.
When you do this, please always request that
your receipt is emailed to you so you can easily
search your inbox for the word receipt or bill
or invoice, et cetera, before tax season.
And print out these receipts and give them
to your accountant, if you have one.
Or use these printouts when filing taxes.
And please always ask charities
that you're gonna donate to for a charitable receipt.
And please not that they must be a registered charity
in order for you to get a tax deduction.
And take a picture on your mileage on your car
before and after a business trip
and before and after you commute to a charitable event.
And at the end of the year, search your calendar
for the name of the charitable events that you want to,
and also the names of the business trip
so you can open up your mobile camera phone,
you know, or iPhone, whatever it is, Android handset,
and just calculate the mileage based on the data,
or dates I should say, of the photos
of your cars odometer; take a picture of your
car's odometer, okay?
Alternatively, you can consider buying an ODP port
item from companies like automatic.com
like we spoke about earlier in the course
in this lecture here.
And you can even expense the purchase
if you run your own business,
full time or on the side.
And there's so many benefits to having your own company,
it's unbelievable.
I have my own company, I set it up as an S corp.
And from a retirement perspective, it's awesome because
I have my company, which is mine, 100% mine,
match my retirement savings every year.
You can do that, okay, and we'll talk about this
very soon when we talk about retirement savings programs.
Okay, separately, you can also track your mileage
by clicking on this road icon in the bottom
right-hand corner of your speedometer right here.
Then you can print or save as a PDF when you complete this.
I formatted the printing option for you on this tab.
You can print a PDF or save as PDF.
And when your accountant does your taxes,
or when you do your taxes, if you choose to do so,
download all credit card statements as well
and all bank statements online if you can
so your accountant can help you with tax deductions,
or so you can review all of your expenses
and decide if you can deduct some expenses.
And if you do a lot of charity work,
you can even consider using Intuit's tax software program
called ItsDeductible right here.
Use it on your computer or on your phone.
Also, please don't forget to print out
all of your retirement savings accounts,
and any other documents pertaining to your assets
and your liabilities which you calculate
in exercise seven, and revenue expense items,
which you calculate in exercise two.
This sounds like a lot, but don't worry,
this will make a lot more sense very soon in this course.
And this one's crucial:
if you've actually lost money on an investment this year
or in the past, your investment statements
that you sent, your accountant will document this.
So you can pay less taxes.
And yes, if you've lost money on an investment
in the past, you should pay less taxes today.
And this is actually called the tax loss carry forward.
And because you lost money, or might've lost money
in the past on an investment,
you should pay less taxes today
on money you made on investments.
And companies do this all the time,
especially here in the technology sector in Silicon Valley.
Tech companies lose a lot of money for many, many years.
And they actually don't pay taxes for many years
because they carry forward their losses from previous years.
And this concept is called an NOL,
or a Net Operating Loss.
Separately, hiring an accountant is a great idea,
and it won't cost you as much as you think it will.
And they'll explain this whole NOL concept to you
if you've lost money in the past.
Every country's a little bit different,
but make sure your accountant knows about your losses
in the past.
And tax codes change all the time,
and accountants stay up to date on this stuff.
It's too hard for me to do so,
or any of us that aren't accountants.
So you're actually more likely to get money back
and not be audited if you use the right accountant.
And ask your parents or successful friends
or relatives to recommend that you use their accountant.
And hopefully you will get money back
that will more than cover the cost
of hiring that accountant.
And a good accountant can keep you out of trouble as well
as ignorance of the tax laws is no excuse.
And you can also, you might also have to double check
what they do just in case.
But if you're talking to your friends or family
about hiring the right accountant,
your friends and family are very credible,
and they've dealt with this accountant for years, whatever,
so you should be okay.
But hiring an accountant also makes sense because it
is so incredibly difficult to keep track of
all the existing and constantly changing tax laws,
as tax laws and codes are literally
millions and millions of words long.
And this is why the accountant profession exists.
Some people believe that not hiring an accountant
to file your taxes is like doing your own research
only when it comes to self-medication.
And the only reason I would recommend not hiring
an accountant is if you don't make much money at all,
as you work part time or you're a student.
And in addition to giving all receipts
and statements and mileage to an accountant,
give them all tax documents that you receive as well.
In the United States, your annual tax form
from your employer is given to you,
it's called the W-2 form.
There's also a form called a 1099 that you might have
that might've been given to you if you did
any consulting or part-time work.
And there's another form called a K-1
which is a form you get if you invested in a fund.
Right, at the end of the year they give you a K-1.
And just give all that stuff if you can to your accountant.
Or keep them handy as you file your taxes,
online or on paper.
And to see what tax documents you should file,
hopefully with the help of your accountant in your country,
please click on the Tax Filing Organizer button,
and click on this link here.
See this box here, there are a bunch of
links that should help you based on what country
you're in for taxes.
And we're gonna cover this, don't worry,
in the other stuff on this Tax Filing Organizer tab
in exercise 13, okay?
Okay.
At least 10% of all tax filings have errors in them.
And most of the time it's because the person filing
the tax form didn't understand how to complete the forms.
And unfortunately, tax avoidance can be a felony,
even if it's by accident,
and ignorance of the tax law, or laws in general,
is no excuse.
It's just not worth it.
This is really why I recommend hiring an accountant
if you can, as the tax laws, again,
are complicated and the rules change all the time.
And accountants can be very, very affordable.
Again, ask you friends and relatives for suggestions
on who to use for your local accountant.
And please don't wait, please don't wait until
a few weeks before taxes are due to ask for recommendations.
Plan well in advance.
And the personal tax filing deadline in your country
is listed right here.
Also, in many countries, hiring an accountant
is tax deductible.
And if you don't make more than, say,
5,000 or 10,000 in many countries,
or whatever it is equivalent in your currency,
you don't need to file.
And just please search first if you need to file
instead of relying on me though.
And in the United States, there are more than
16,000 pages of tax laws, and close to
500 different tax forms.
And a good account will help you to
file as a single person or a married person, if applicable,
or head of the household, if applicable;
and how to document dependents like children, et cetera,
which can really decrease the amount of taxes
that you're going to pay.
And that means that, yes, (chuckles) your 23-year-old
that's living in your house can decrease the taxes
you pay, et cetera.
I lived, when I was that age, I lived at home too.
Okay, if you make money on the side,
your accountant can also tell you if it makes sense
for you to register a separate company,
so you can write off gas mileage, computer,
part of the rent or mortgage on your house, et cetera.
Now in the United States, close to 100 million Americans
receive a tax refund of close to $3,000
every single year.
And I guess the last thing I wanna stress in this lesson
is please don't every take money out of your tax
savings account without first talking to your accountant.
And I promise you that the one hour you pay
for your accountant for advice,
before taking money out of your retirement account,
is a smart investment because you might end up paying
a lot more in taxes, or have early withdrawal penalties,
et cetera, if you do this.
And I have to stress again
that all tax codes in every country on the planet
change a lot overtime based on new political leaders,
et cetera.
So hence, my recommendation is to always
work with an accountant.
Thank you.